# secure_rng.h
A cryptographically secure pseudeo random number generator (CSPRNG) that can be used as a drop in replacement for the Mersenne-Twister provided with C++11.
This header implements [AES256](https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advanced_Encryption_Standard) and uses it in [Counter Mode CTR](https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Counter_Mode) to generate random numbers.

## class AES_RNG
#### Types
**`result_type = std::uint64_t`**  

#### Methods
**`constexpr static std::uint64_t min()`**  
The smallest value that can be generated by the CSPRNG. This will always return 0.

**`constexpr static std::uint64_t max()`**  
The largest value that can be generated by the CSPRNG. This will always return 2<sup>64</sup>-1.

**`AES_RNG(AES::Key key, AES::Block iv)`**  
**`AES_RNG(std::uint64_t seed)`**  
The constructor.
In the first case the key will be used as aes key and iv will be used as initial state of a counter.
In the second case the key and initial state will be derived from the seed and some digits of pi.

**`std::uint64_t operator()()`**  
Generates a single integer in [0,2<sup>64</sup>).


## class AES
A simple AES implementation based on [github.com/SergeyBel/AES](https://github.com/SergeyBel/AES)
> Note: this is only intended to be used for the CSPRNG.

#### Types
**`Block = std::array<std::uint8_t, 16>`**  
**`Key = std::array<std::uint8_t, 32>`**  
**`RoundKey = std::array<std::uint8_t, 16>`**  
**`RoundKeys = std::array<RoundKey, 15>`**  
**`State = std::array<std::array<std::uint8_t, 4>, 4>`**  

#### Methods
**`constexpr AES(Key key)`**  
The constructor.
Takes a 256 bit key.

**`constexpr Block operator()(Block block) const`**  
Encryptes a single block of 128 bit with the key provided in the constructor.
